---
layout: post
title: Github
date: '2013-05-28T06:48:00+02:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: /dev/github
---

You start with a [Github.com](http://www.github.com) issue assigned to you. You
should:

 * fork the repository,
 * create a branch,
 * make changes, commit and push them,
 * create pull request and inform us.

## 1. Fork the Repository

You don’t have write access to the repository in Github, even though you’re part
of the development team. In order to contribute with changes, you should fork
the repository (create your private copy of it), make changes there and submit
them for review using “a pull request”. After pull request review, repository
owner will merge your changes into the main repository. This is how main
development stream is protected against accidental damage.

This article explains how to fork a repository:
https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo

This one explains how to download and install Git on your computer:
https://help.github.com/articles/set-up-git

Don’t forget to add your private SSH key to Github:
https://help.github.com/articles/generating-ssh-keys

## 2. Create a Branch

Once you have a fork of our repository in your account, clone it to your laptop
and checkout master branch, for example:

{% highlight bash %}
git clone git@github.com:yegor256/jcabi.git
git checkout master
{% endhighlight %}

Now it’s time to branch (`123` is the number of Github issue you’re going to work
with, and the name of the branch):

{% highlight bash %}
git checkout -b 123
{% endhighlight %}

By convention, we use the same name for the branch as the name of the issue
you’re working with.

## 3. Make Changes, Commit and Push Them

Make the changes you want to make, using your text editor or IDE. It’s a good
practice to commit changes as often as you make them. Don’t accumulate changes
for long.

Don’t forget to run full Maven test when you think you’re done:

{% highlight bash %}
mvn clean install -Pqulice
{% endhighlight %}

The `-Pqulice` flag turns on static analysis profile that checks the quality of
your Java code. If Maven fails, fix the sources. Once you see a “build success”
message, push your changes:

{% highlight bash %}
git push origin 123
{% endhighlight %}

If you have questions about the scope of work, post them to the Github issue and
wait for the answer. If you think that the existing code needs improvements,
don’t hesitate to submit a new issue to Github. Don’t try to fix all problems in
one branch. Let other programmers take care of them.

## 4. Create Pull Request and Inform Us

Create a pull request in Github as this article explains:
https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests

Post its number to the original issue and wait for feedback.
