---
layout: post
title: Team Work Principles
date: '2013-11-27T02:36:00+01:00'
tags: []
permalink: /dev/principles
categories: blog
---

Your work in our projects may be very effective if you take into the principles
listed here (read also Intro and Guidelines). This is how and where we differ
from many other software teams:

<span class="step">1</span>  **Definition of Done**.  You ticket is done (and
paid) only when your results are merged into master and the ticket is closed. It
doesn’t matter how much time or efforts you have spent on the task. If it’s not
merged or not closed — it’s not paid. We make no exceptions, ever. It’s your
responsibility to make your changes mergeable, 100% compliant with all quality
checks and accepted by code reviewers. If you can’t do it (for any reason!),
it’s your fault and you won’t be paid.

<span class="step">2</span> **Bugs are Very Welcome**. Unlike many other
software projects, we love when bugs are reported. We even pay for them. If you
see a problem in existing source code, submit a bug report. We pay 15 minutes
for every new non-duplicate and properly created bug report. Something is
unclear in the source code — file a bug, asking for a better documentation. You
don’t like something and would like to refactor it — file a bug. Don’t waste
your time trying to improve existing product — file a bug and somebody else will
do it for you.

<span class="step">3</span>  **No Obligations**. If you don’t like the task assigned
to you, or you don’t have time, or you’re simply not in the mood — we encourage
you to reject it, asking us to give you something else. We don’t want you to
respect any deadlines or stick to any milestones. Instead, we want you to select
the tasks you like and do them when you have time. But keep in mind that if a
task is not finished in 10 days (ten days!), we may take it away from you,
paying nothing, no matter what is the status of the task and how much time you
have already invested in it. It also doesn’t matter why it took too long.

<span class="step">4</span>  **Keep It Simple**. The less code you write — the
better. Try to write as less as you can. Try to keep your code simple and easy
to understand. If you have to create something complex — you definitely have a
problem with an understanding of some architecture concepts. All tasks you get
are intended to produce less than 100 lines of code (excluding comments and
empty lines). If you have to write more — you’re doing something wrong. Stop and
ask, or use PDD.
